¶Ifinal_url°DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalueá¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD1524¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 16 Feb 2018 03:33:24 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueS"5f4-5654c01bb79df"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 03:18:13 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/plain; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueYÙThis is an edited version of the README file of the Independent JPEG Group

The software from the Independent JPEG Group (IJG) implements JPEG baseline, 
extended-sequential, and progressive compression processes.  The software
has been updated on a more or less regular basis by IJG.

The "official" archive site for this software is ftp.uu.net (Internet
address 192.48.96.9).  The most recent released version can always be found
there in directory graphics/jpeg.  If you are on the Internet, you
can retrieve files from ftp.uu.net by standard anonymous FTP.

Numerous Internet sites maintain copies of the UUNET files; in particular,
you can probably find a copy at any site that archives comp.sources.misc
submissions.  However, only ftp.uu.net is guaranteed to have the latest
official version.

The JPEG FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) article is a useful source of
general information about JPEG.  It is updated constantly and therefore is
not included in this distribution.  The FAQ is posted every two weeks to
Usenet newsgroups comp.graphics, news.answers, and other groups.  You can
always obtain the latest version from the news.answers archive at
rtfm.mit.edu.  By FTP, fetch /pub/usenet/news.answers/jpeg-faq/part1 and
.../part2.

This software is the work of Tom Lane, Philip Gladstone, Luis Ortiz, Jim
Boucher, Lee Crocker, Julian Minguillon, George Phillips, Davide Rossi,
Ge' Weijers, and other members of the Independent JPEG Group.

IJG is not associated with the official ISO JPEG standards committee.
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueÙIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalue»Qdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueı