¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD5758¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXWed, 15 Mar 2000 23:01:19 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"167e-362e52772cdc0"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 23:03:25 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/plain; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueY~Advanced Collections Teleconference
March 15, 2000

Present: Judy Slein, Jason Crawford, Geoff Clemm, Jim Whitehead, Chuck Fay
Minutes recorded by Jim Whitehead

*** Note that decisions made during the teleconference are always
subject to review on the mailing list.  The mailing list is the final
arbiter of consensus on any issue.  Note also, that the revised
Bindings Protocol specification, and Redirect References 
protocol  produced as a result of this conference call will also 
be subject to review by the mailing list. ***

BINDINGS:

Began with some discussion of Geoff Clemm's proposed language for
binding "integrity". His proposed language is:

If a DELETE request, MOVE request, or a request with an Overwrite:T
header is applied to a resource identified by the URL /path/x, and
/path identifies a collection that supports the BIND/UNBIND methods,
then the request MUST have the same effect as an UNBIND of x from
/path.  In particular, if the request succeeds, the binding named x
MUST be removed from the collection indentified by /path, and whether
or not the request succeeds, no other bindings from any other
collection may be removed.

Hashed around this language a bit.  Batted around the language, "if
BIND to a resource is supported, then a DELETE/MOVE/Overwrite:T to
that resource MUST have the same effect as an UNBIND." But, this
doesn't capture the fact that the collection containing the resource
must also support BIND for this assertion to be true.

REDIRECT REFERENCES:

Issue #49: Section 6.2 is going away (based on discussion last week),
so this issue no longer applies.

Issue #50: Discussed having the Redirect-Ref header give the value of
the redirection (i.e., the relative or absolute URL), and thus not
require a separate method just to read the value of the redirect
resource.  Agreed that this is a good idea, and will put this into the
spec.

Decided to disagree with Yaron, and not accept his wording change.
Felt that his wording suggestion did not make things more clear.

Issue #51: Agreed to delete the first paragraph of section 7.

Issue #52: Disagree with Yaron. Important use cases for relative URLs
have been posted to the mailing list.  Need relative URLs to allow a
redirect resource to behave correctly if it has multiple URL mappings,
and is referring to a resource within its local namespace.

Issue #53: Decided to make this functionality "SHOULD" behavior, since
it is potentially expensive to implement, and is difficult to
modularize, as was pointed out in the comment.  Will also add language
describing what happens if the SHOULD behavior is not implemented
(i.e., a 404 is returned).

Issue #54: This was resolved in a discussion on the mailing list.  No
changes needed here.

Issue #55: Agreed to accept Yaron's suggestion and extend the IANA
considerations section with methods, headers, and XML elements.

Issue #56: Agreed that we will add an example showing use of non-HTTP
URLs in a Redirect Reference.

Issue #57: Previously agreed that we will add language forbidding
servers to do redirect reference cleanup.

Issue #58: Agreed that we will provide a mechanism for update of the
value of a Redirect Reference.

Issue #59: Disagreed.  This is too complex, and doesn't appear to
address a pressing use scenario.

Issue #60: Agreed to delete the paragraph containing

Also discussed what should be returned by a PROPFIND multistatus
response that includes a redirect reference resource.  Agreed that
only the location information, and nothing else, should be returned.
The rationale is that the location is necessary to return, since this
tells you where the location would be redirected. But, if you need to
know whether it is a redirect reference, or an ordinary resource, it
is possible to submit a PROPFIND asking for the redirect value.
Agreed to table this, and reconsider next week.

Issue #61: Decided to no longer call DAV:location a "psuedoproperty",
and just define a new XML element for this. This contradicts an
earlier decision (Yaron raised this issue previously).  But, we'll
still encourage the WebDAV Distributed Authoring protocol to add this
in for 302 responses.

Issue #62: Agreed to delete the sentence, "Until then, non-referencing
clients will not ..."

Issue #63: Agreed to delete section 7.1.  Will reword 7.2 to avoid
concerns with "poses special problems" and "due to atomicity".

Issue #64: We need relative URIs. As a result of needing relative
URIs, we need a different mechanism from the Location header, which
must be an absolute URI. So, do not accept this suggestion.

Issue #65: This issue was discussed in the past, and even made it into
some previous drafts. In the end, the difficulty of having some
special cases that differ from a consistent set of semantics
outweighed the advantage of the special cases. So, we disagree with
the suggestion.

Issue #66: Agreed, will make this change.

Issue #67: Wording right now is wrong, so we agree with this
suggestion.  Need to get rid of the end of the 2nd to last sentence,
and the beginning of the last sentence, mushing them together.

Issue #68: This issue has been noted on the WebDAV issues list as
"DEEP_LOCK_ERROR_STATUS". Will keep using 207, and will encourage RFC
2518 to be changed to use 207 in this case.

Issue #69: Disagree.  The use of 424 in this case is correct (see
def'n of 424 in RFC 2518)

Issue #70: Agreed that we feel that no additional text is needed in
this case.  The draft as-is is adequate.

Issue #71: We accept this change, it's right.

Issue #72: Add a note about not wanting two slashes in a row.  Use
this for rationale for warning against ending a redirect reference
target with a slash, since this will result in two slashes in a row.

*** End of teleconference ***Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ